
## Chapter 0.5

>What does it mean to compile your code?

>What does packaging mean in the context of software deployment?


## Chapter 1

>What is the purpose of CMake?

It turns source code into something that is actually usable for the end user. Without something to actually compile and build your code, all you have is a collection of files with code on them.


>Why wouldn't you just use Visual studio or XCode to simplify the process of building, debugging and packaging?

While Visual Studio and XCode simplifies the process a lot, the files generated aren't always supported by all platforms. Any project that aims to support multiple platforms would benefit from using CMake instead since a lot of files need to be platform specific.


>What are the different stages of software deployment according to CMake?

1. Configuration of how and what files should be generated.
2. Build project files generation, creates specific platform files based on a generic description of how the project should look. 
3. Build file generation. Generates an actual executable based on the project files generated in the earlier step.
4. Tests through CTests.
5. Packaging through CPack.

## Chapter 2

>What is `CMakeLists.txt`?

`CMakeLists.txt` is a simple text file containing a generic description of how the project looks. It is used by CMake in deciding how the project build files should be generated. 

>What are the three (or four depending on how you see it) things does `CMakeLists.txt` define?

1. What should be built and how.
2. What tests should be run.
3. What packages should be created.

>What are the main directories any project using CMake should contain?

A build directory and a source directory.

>What does each of these directories typically contain?

The build directory contains all the build project files that are generated by Cmake as well as the build. The source directory contains all of the source files, all the files containing the actual code and whatever else.

>What is the difference between an in-source build and an outside-of-source build?

In an in-source build the build directory and the source directory are one and the same. In an outside-of-source build the source directory and the build directory are separate directories usually direct siblings under the same parent directory.

>What is the perceived benefit of using an in-source build?

The simplicity of having one directory.

>Why is it considered a bad practice to use an in-source build?

Most VCS systems will track all of the build projects files in the build directory as well as the build. This is undesirable since the point of using Cmake in the first place is to have the user generate those files on their respective systems for max compatibility. In addition having the directories separate allows the user to create multiple build directories (debug, release version, etc).

>What is a file generator?

A file generator in this context means something that generates the build project files used to make the actual executable.

>What are some of the commonly used ones?

Visual studio, Xcode, Ninja, Makefiles.

>What is the command used to generate project files?

`cmake ... [path/to/source]`

>How do you select which generator to use?

When using the `cmake` command, you add `-g` followed by the name of the generator wrapped in quotes. Example: `camke -g "unix makefiles" ../source`.

>What happens if you don't select one?

CMake chooses a default generator depending on the user's platform.

>Why might it be beneficial to try building your code with different generators from time to time?

In order to make sure that project builds fine using most of the common file generators.

>Some of the generators produce projects with multiple build configurations available. What is the purpose of this? In what scenario might this be useful?

This allows the user switch between different configurations without rebuilding each time (ex. debug, release). This is useful when generating files meant to be used inside of an IDE like Visual Studio. 

>When CMake finishes generating project files, it creates a file `CMakeCache.txt`, what information does this file contain?

The `CMakeCache.txt` file contains settings that persists after each use of the `cmake` command.

>What command is used to `build` your project?

`cmake --build [path/to/build] ` 

>How do you select which build configuration to use?

By adding the `--config` option to the previous command, followed by the name of the config wrapped in quotes.

>What happens if the project files generator used doesn't support multiple configurations?

It gets ignored.

>How do you select which files to build?

By adding `--target` followed by the name of the target wrapped in quotes.

>What happens if you omit what files to build?

CMake chooses the default target.


